So then to one of the solutions that
appear with time to solve the problem is
multi-factor authentication.
It started with two factor but
then multi-factor.
So in this case,
it's actually the same thing.
So we send the password, okay?
But as we know the password
is not secure enough,
we add another authentication factor.
It can be an email address, so
I send you a code through email
after you give me your password,
so then I will check, okay, so
it's the password that you know but
also something that you should have
like access to your email account.
Or your SMS or a USB key like a YubiKey or
where you can store there are some data.
So all of these are multi factor
authentication in that case,
you will generate the code, okay?
Apart from the secret password,
and that code will also
travel to the server to increase security,
okay?
But it's not perfect.
It's still not perfect.
I mean, for example,
I'm not going to say which company but, so
I have a SIM card, so I'm from Argentina,
so my SIM card is from Argentina,
from an Argentinian company,
but I also have a US SIM card.
And one day I lost that SIM card,
it didn't work anymore, so
I went to an office and I got a new one.
They didn't ask me for anything, not
even my passport, just the phone number.
So I gave them my phone number and
they gave me a SIM card.
So if I could do that, yeah, I was
the owner but they didn't check that.
Anyone can do that.
So they can easily get your SIM card and
then they will get your
SMS code instead of you.
And there a lot of now scams
over WhatsApp also to do that.
So, it's complicated, but
maybe, they're calling you.
So if you pick up the call,
when they're calling you because
you have the phone line used,
they are sending you a WhatsApp code,
by call as well.
But because you are using the phone line,
that code goes to your mailbox,
your phone mailbox.
So then someone get into your mailbox and
get the code.
And with that weird situation,
they're stealing your WhatsApp.
And when they do that they send messages
to your friends asking for money or
something like that, okay?
Anyway, weird situations happen,
so it is still not perfect.
And the worst part is that it's adding
a lot of friction in the user experience.
Because you log in and then you
need to find your, where is my key,
my USB key because,
I need to open my authenticator app.
Look for my code, okay?
And it's adding friction
to the login experience.
So user experience becomes a problem and
the risk is still there.
So that's why we are arriving
to a passwordless experience.
With password less secure
experience at least.
What we're going to do is
we're going to have a pair of,
public and private key, okay?
The private key will be stored
safely within your device, okay?
It's not something that you know,
so, it's a secret, but
it's not something that you will
write down in a piece of paper.
You could actually as you can write
down the private address of your crypto
wallet but, yeah, it's not common,
no one's going to do that, okay?
So you use a USB key for that,
or modern devices can actually
encrypt the data with your fingerprint or
with your face recognition.
But it's not 100% secure.
For example, with face ID, so
there are one every
10,000 people that will
actually log in in your
phone with a different face.
The problem is finding that person, okay?
So it's not so simple.
Finding the person that it's actually so
similar to your face that can
actually log in your into your phone.
So it's still considered already secure,
okay?
So, well, in that case,
that private key will be stored in
your device encrypted by your
fingerprint or by your face.
And the public key will actually travel to
the web server and to the database, okay?
That's how typically passwordless work.
And yeah,
what happens now on different situations
such as if an attacker gets
access to your server they
will get your public key that is public so
yeah, okay,
go ahead, take my public key,
nothing will happen.
You cannot login with the public key.
You need the private key,
not the public key.
And also because the user actually
doesn't know the private key,
they cannot get to link on the phone.
I cannot give the private
key on the phone.
Or if I go to a phishing website, so here,
we don't see the whole encryption
details in this diagram,
but the private key is stored with
your fingerprint, with your face, or
with the USB key, and
also with the origin of the website, okay?
So, that private key won't be
taken out of the secure storage
if you're in a different origin,
in a different website.
So with phishing doesn't work with this,
because when you go to a website
that is a different URL,
the browser will not give that website
the credential, the store credential.
Even if it's the same user.
Even if the user is using the finger or
pointing the face, it's not gonna work
because [INAUDIBLE] says, no,
I'm sorry, that's not the website.
So the credentials that we
created were for paypal.com not
with paypaI, with instead of an L and
capital I, okay?
So it will say, no, I don't have
credentials for their website.
So this is not 100% secure, but
much more secure than the previous flaws,
okay?
Make sense?
Do you have any question?
Is this available on the web today?
Yes.
We are still not in the position
that everyone is using it.
In fact, think about yourself as a user.
In how many websites are you logging
in with Face ID or Touch ID or USB key?
Probably not a lot.
Unless you are in a high
security environment,
like you are managing the accounting
on a large company, so
actually you have access to
the bank account with $100 million,
so accessing to that website
is really high security.
So typically you have a USB key, and
maybe that USB key needs your fingerprint.
But if it's just a website for
gaming or something like that, okay?
You're not logging in
with these technologies.
But it's time to start moving to these
technologies because they are there.
From a user experience point of view,
they are actually easy to use.
We will see that later.